NoHo good afternoon it is a great honor
for me to be here in Shanghai and to
have this opportunity to speak with all
of you I'd like to thank food on
University's president young for his
hospitality and his gracious welcome I'd
also like to thank our outstanding
ambassador Jon Huntsman who exemplifies
the deep ties and respect between our
nation's I don't know what he said but I
hope it was good what I'd like to do is
to make some opening remarks and then
what I'm really looking forward to doing
is taking questions not only from
students who are in the audience but
also we've received questions online
which will be asked by some of the
students who are here in the audience as
well as by ambassador Huntsman and I am
very sorry that my Chinese is not as
good as your English but I am looking
forward to this chance to have a
dialogue this is my first time traveling
to China and I'm excited to see this
majestic country here in Shanghai we see
the growth that has caught the attention
of the world the soaring skyscrapers the
bustling streets and entrepreneurial
activity and just as I'm impressed by
these signs of China's journey to the
21st century I'm eager to see those
ancient places that speak to us from
China's distant past tomorrow I hope and
the next day I hope to have a chance
when I'm in Beijing to see the majesty
of the Forbidden City and the wonder of
the Great Wall and truly this is a
nation that encompasses both a rich
history and a belief in the promise of
the future the same can be said of the
relationship between our two countries
Shanghai of course is a city that has
great meaning in the history of the
relationship between the United States
and China
it was here 37 years ago that the
Shanghai communique opened the door to a
new chapter of engagement between our
governments and among our people
however America's ties to this city and
to this country stretched back further
to the earliest days of America's
independence in 1784 our founding father
George Washington commissioned the
Empress of China a ship that sets sail
for these shores so that it could pursue
trade with the Ching dynasty Washington
wanted to see the ship carry the flag
around the globe and to forge new ties
with nations like China this is a common
American impulse the desire to reach for
new horizons and to forge new
partnerships that are mutually
beneficial over the two centuries that
have followed the currents of history
have steered the relationship between
our countries in many directions and
even in the midst of tumultuous winds
our people had opportunities to forge
deepen and even dramatic ties for
instance Americans will never forget the
hospitality shown to our pilots who were
shot down over your soil during World
War two and cared for by Chinese
civilians who risked all that they had
by doing so and Chinese veterans of that
war still warmly greet those American
veterans who returned to the sites where
they fought to help liberate China from
occupation a different kind of
connection was made nearly 40 years ago
when the frost between our countries
began to thaw through the simple game of
table tennis the very unlikely nature of
this engagement contributed to its
success because for all our differences
both our common humanity and our shared
curiosity were revealed as one American
player described his visit to China the
people are just like us the country is
very similar to America but still very
different of course this small opening
was followed by the achievement of the
Shanghai communique and the eventual
establishment of formal relations
between the United States and China in
1979 and in three decades just look how
we have come in 1979 trade between the
United States and China stood at roughly
five billion dollars today it tops over
400 billion dollars each year the
commerce affects our people's lives in
so many ways America imports from China
many of the computer parts weaves the
clothes we wear and we export to China
machinery that helps power your industry
this trade could create even more jobs
on both sides of the Pacific while
allowing our people to enjoy a better
quality of life and as demand becomes
more balanced it can lead to even
broader prosperity in 1979 the political
cooperation between the United States
and China was rooted largely in our
shared rivalry with the Soviet Union
today we have a positive constructive
and comprehensive relationship that
opens the door to partnership on the key
global issues of our time economic
recovery and the development of clean
energy stopping the spread of nuclear
weapons and the scourge of climate
change the promotion of peace and
security in Asia and around the globe
all of these issues will be on the
agenda tomorrow when I meet with
President Who and in 1979 the
connections among our people were
limited today we see the curiosity of
those ping-pong players manifested in
the ties that are being forged across
many sectors the second highest number
of foreign students in the United States
come from China and we've seen a 50%
increase in the study of Chinese among
our own students there are nearly 200
friendship cities drawing our
communities together American and
Chinese scientists cooperate on new
research and discovery and of course Yao
Ming is just one signal of our shared
love of basketball I'm only sorry that I
won't be able to see a Shanghai Sharks
game while I'm visiting it is no
coincidence that the relationship
between our countries has accompanied a
period of positive change
China has lifted hundreds of millions of
people out of poverty an accomplishment
unparalleled in human history while
playing a larger role in global events
and the United States has seen our
economy grow along with the standard of
living enjoyed by our people while
bringing the Cold War to a successful
conclusion there is a Chinese proverb
consider the past and you shall know the
future surely we have known setbacks and
challenges over the last thirty years
our relationship has not been without
disagreement and difficulty but the
notion that we must be adversaries is
not predestined not when we consider the
past and did indeed because of our
cooperation both the United States and
China are more prosperous and more
secure we have seen what is possible
when we build upon our mutual interests
and engage on the basis of mutual
respect and yet the success of that
engagement depends upon understanding on
sustaining an open dialogue and learning
about one another and from one another
for just as that American table tennis
player pointed out we share much in
common as human beings but our countries
are different in certain ways I believe
that each country must chart its own
course China is an ancient nation with a
deeply rooted culture the United States
by comparison is a young nation whose
culture is determined by the many
different immigrants who have come to
our shores and by the founding documents
that guide our democracy those documents
put forward a simple vision of human
affairs and they enshrine several core
principles that all men and women are
created equal and possess certain
fundamental rights that government
should reflect the will of the people
and respond to their wishes that
Commerce should be open information
freely accessible and that laws and not
simply men should guarantee the
administration of justice of course the
story of our nation is not without its
diff
chapters in many ways over many years we
have struggled to advance the promise of
these principles to all of our people
and to forge a more perfect union we
fought a very painful civil war and
freed a portion of our population from
slavery it took time for women to be
extended the right to vote for workers
to win the right to organize and for
immigrants from different corners of the
globe to be fully embraced even after
they were freed African Americans
persevered through conditions that were
separate and not equal before winning
full and equal rights none of this was
easy but we made progress because of our
belief in those core principles which
have served as our compass through the
darkest of storms that is why Lincoln
could stand up in the midst of Civil War
and declare it a struggle to see whether
any nation conceived in Liberty and
dedicated to the proposition that all
men are created equal could long endure
that is why dr. Martin Luther King could
stand on the steps of the Lincoln
Memorial and asked that our nation live
out the true meaning of its Creed
that's why immigrants from China to
Kenya could find a home on our shores
why opportunity is available to all who
would work for it and why someone like
me who less than fifty years ago would
have had trouble voting in some parts of
America is now able to serve as its
president and that is why America will
always speak out for those core
principles around the world we do not
seek to impose any system of government
on any other nation but we also don't
believe that the principles that we
stand for are unique to our nation these
freedoms of expression and worship of
access to information and political
participation we believe our universal
rights they should be available to all
people including ethnic and religious
minorities whether they are in the
United States China or any nation indeed
it is that respect
for universal rights that guides
America's openness to other countries
our respect for different cultures our
commitment to international law and our
faith in the future these are all things
that you should know about America I
also know that we have much to learn
about China looking around at this
magnificent city and looking around this
room I do believe that our nation's hold
something important in common and that
is a belief in the future neither the
United States nor China is content to
rest on our achievements for while China
is an ancient nation you are also
clearly looking ahead with confidence
ambition and a commitment to see that
tomorrow's generation can do better than
today's in addition to your growing
economy
we admire China's extraordinary
commitment to science and research a
commitment born out in everything from
the infrastructure you build to the
technology you use China is now the
world's largest Internet user which is
why we were so pleased to include the
Internet as part of today's event this
country now has the world's largest
mobile phone network and it is investing
in the new forms of energy that can both
sustain growth and combat climate change
and I'm looking forward to deepening the
partnership between the United States
and China in this critical area tomorrow
but above all I see China's future in
you young people whose talent and
dedication and dreams will do so much to
help shape the 21st century I've said
many times that I believe that our world
is now fundamentally interconnected the
jobs we do the prosperity we build the
environment we protect the security that
we seek all of these things are shared
and given that interconnection power in
the 21st century is no longer a zero-sum
game one country's success need not come
at the expense of another and that is
why the United States insists we do not
seek to contain China's rise on the
contrary we welcome China as a strong
and prosperous and successful member of
the community of nations a China that
draws on the rights
strengths and creativity of individual
Chinese like you to return to the
proverb consider the past we know that
more is to be gained when great powers
cooperate than when they collide that is
a lesson that human beings have learned
time and again and that is the example
of the history between our nation's and
I believe strongly that cooperation must
go beyond our government it must be
rooted in our people in the studies we
share the business that we do the
knowledge that we gain and even in the
sports that we play and these bridges
must be built by young men and women
just like you and your counterparts in
America that's why I'm pleased to
announce that the United States will
dramatically expand the number of our
students who study in China to 100,000
and these exchanges mark a clear
commitment to build ties among our
people as surely as you will help
determine the destiny of the 21st
century and I'm absolutely confident
that America has no better ambassadors
to offer than our young people for they
just like you are filled with talent and
energy and optimism about the history
that is yet to be written so let this be
the next step in the steady pursuit of
cooperation that will serve our nation's
and the world and if there's one thing
that we can take from today's dialogue I
hope that it is a commitment to continue
this dialogue going forward so thank you
very much and I look forward now to
taking some questions for all of you
thank you very much
so the I just want to make sure this
works this this is a tradition by the
way that is very common in the United
States of these town hall meetings and
what we're going to do is I will just if
you are interested in asking a question
you can raise your hands I will call on
you and then I will alternate between a
question from the audience and an
internet question from one of the
students who prepared the questions as
well as I think ambassador Huntsman may
have a question that we were able to
obtain from the website of our embassy
so let me begin though by seeing and
what I'll do is I'll call on a boy and
then a girl and then so we'll go back
and forth so that you know it's fair all
right so I'll start with this young lady
right in the front here why don't we
wait for this microphone so everyone can
hear you and what's your name 1985 and
these two City has conducted a wide
range of economic political and cultural
exchanges so what measures will you take
to deepen this close relationship
between cities of the United States and
China and Shanghai will hold the world
exposition next year will you bring your
family to visit the expo thank you well
thank you very much for the question I
was just having lunch before I came here
with the mayor of Shanghai and he told
me that he has had an excellent
relationship with the city of Chicago my
hometown that he's visited there twice
and I think it's wonderful to have these
exchanges between cities one of the
things that I discussed with the mayor
is how both cities can learn from each
other on strategies around clean energy
because one of the issues that ties
China and America together is how with
an expanding population
and a concern for climate change that we
are able to reduce our carbon footprint
and obviously in the United States and
many developed countries per capita per
individual they are already using much
more energy than each individual here in
China but as China grows and expands its
going to be using more energy as well so
both countries have a great interest in
finding new strategies we talked about
mass transit and the excellent rail
lines that are being developed in
Shanghai I think we can learn in Chicago
some of the and in the United States
some of the fine work that's being done
on high-speed rail in the United States
I think we are learning how to develop
buildings that use much less energy that
are much more energy efficient and I
know that with Shanghai as I traveled
and I saw all the cranes and all the new
buildings that are going up it's very
important for us to start incorporating
these new technologies so that each
building is energy efficient when it
comes to lighting when it comes to
heating and so it's a terrific
opportunity I think for us to learn from
each other I know this is going to be a
major focus of the Shanghai World Expo
is the issue of clean energy as I've
learned from the mayor and so I would
love to attend I'm not sure yet what my
schedule is going to be but I'm very
pleased that we're going to have an
excellent u.s. Pavilion at the expo and
I understand that we expect as many as
70 million visitors here so it's going
to be very crowded and it's going to be
very exciting Chicago has had two World
Expos in its history and both of the
those Expos ended up being tremendous
boosts for the city so I'm sure the same
thing will happen here in Shanghai thank
you
well why don't we get one of the
questions from the internet and
introduce yourself in case it's amazing
so shall I say that in Chinese first
then was your dating glacial okay okay
I'm gon tell from Shanghai Jiaotong
University I want to pose a question
from the internet I want to thank you
mr. president for visiting China in your
first year in office and exchange views
with us in China I want to know what are
you bringing to China in your visit to
China this time and what will you bring
back to the United States and represent
be honorable to be here to represent one
of the friends are from internet to ask
one question firstly thank you thanks
for visiting China and the first a year
over the old president's presidency and
my question is mmm-hmm
what have you but in this China Chinese
trip what have you brought to China and
then what do we want from China thank
you okay the well you know my the main
purpose of my trip is to deepen my
understanding of China and its vision
for the future I have had several
meetings now with president who we
participate together in the g20 summit
that was dealing with the economic
financial crisis we have had
consultations about a wide range of
issues but I think it's very important
for the United States to continually
deepen its understanding of China just
as it's important for China to
continually deepen its understanding of
the United States in terms of what I'd
like to get out of this meeting or this
visit in addition to having the
wonderful opportunity to see the
Forbidden City and the Great Wall and to
meet with all of you these are all
highlights
oh these are all highlights but in
addition to that the discussions that I
intend to have with president who speak
to the point that ambassador Huntsman
made earlier which is there are very few
global challenges that can be solved
unless the United States and China agree
so let me let me give you a specific
example and that is the issue we were
just discussing of climate change the
United States and China are the the
world's two largest emitters of
greenhouse gases of carbon that is
causing the planet to warm now the
United States as a highly developed
country as I said before per capita
consumes much more energy and emits much
more greenhouse gases for each
individual than does China on the other
hand China is growing at a much faster
pace and it has a much larger population
so unless both of our countries are
willing to take critical steps in
dealing with this issue we will not be
able to resolve it there's going to be a
Copenhagen conference in December in
which world leaders are trying to find a
recipe so that we can all make
commitments that are differentiated so
each country would not have the same
obligations obviously China which has
much more poverty should not have to do
exactly the same thing as the United
States but all of us should have these
certain obligations in terms of what our
plan will be to reduce these greenhouse
gases so that's an example of what I
hope to get out of this meeting a
meeting of the minds between myself and
president who about how together the
United States and China can show
leadership because I will tell you other
countries around the world will be
waiting for us they will watch to see
what we do and if they say ah you know
the United States and China they're not
serious about this
then they won't be serious either that's
that is the burden of leadership that
both of our countries now carry and my
hope is is that the more discussion and
dialogue that we have the more we are
able to show this leadership to the
world on these many critical issues okay
all right
it's uh I think it must be a boys turn
now right so I'll call on this young man
right on you ha or should I let me get
my I'm from tomji University I want to
cite a saying from Confucius it is
always good to have a friend from come
coming from afar in Confucius books
there is a great saying which says that
harmony is good and but also we uphold
differences China advocates a harmonious
world we know that the United States
develops a culture that features
diversity I want to know what will your
government do to build a diversity
diversified world with different
cultures what would you do to respect
the different cultures and histories of
other countries and what kinds of
cooperation we can conduct in the future
this is an excellent point the United
States one of our strengths is that we
are a very diverse culture we have
people coming from all around the world
and so there's no one definition of what
an American looks like you know in my
own family I have a father who was from
Kenya I have a mother who
was from Kansas in the Midwest of the
United States
my sister is half Indonesian she's
married to a Chinese person from Canada
so when when you see family gatherings
in the Obama household it looks like the
United Nations and that is a great
strength of the United States because it
means that we we learn from different
cultures and different foods and
different ideas and that has made us a
much more dynamic society now what is
also true is that you know each country
in this interconnected world has its own
culture and its own history and its own
traditions and I think it's very
important for the United States not to
assume that what is good for us is
automatically good for somebody else and
we have to have some modesty about our
attitudes towards other countries I have
to say though as I said in my opening
remarks that we do believe that there
are certain fundamental principles that
are common to all people regardless of
culture so for example in the United
Nations we are very active in trying to
make sure that children all around the
world are treated with certain basic
rights that if children are being
exploited
if there is forced labor for children
that despite the fact that that may have
taken place in the past in many
different countries including the United
States that all countries of the world
now should have developed to the point
where we are treating children better
than we did in the past
that's a universal value I believe for
example the same thing holds true when
it comes to the treatment of women I had
a very interesting discussion with the
mayor of Shanghai during lunch right
before I came and he informed me that in
many professions now here in China there
are actually more women enrolled in
college than there are men and that they
are doing very well I think that is an
excellent indicator of progress because
it turns out that if you look at
development around the world one of the
best indicators of whether or not a
country does well is how well it
educates its girls and how it treats its
women and countries that are tapping
into the talents and the energy of women
and giving them education typically do
better economically that countries that
don't so now obviously different
cultures may have different attitudes
about the relationship between men and
women but I think it is the view of the
United States that it is important for
us to affirm the rights of women all
around the world and if we see certain
societies in which women are oppressed
or they are not getting opportunities or
there is violence towards women we will
speak out now
there may be some people who disagree
with us and we can have a dialogue about
that but we think it's important
nevertheless to be true to our ideals
and our values and we when we do so
though we will always do so with the
humility and understanding that we are
not perfect and that we still have much
progress to make if you talk to women in
America they will tell you that there
are still men who have a lot of
old-fashioned ideas about about the role
of women in society and so you know we
don't claim that we have solved all
these problems but we do think that it's
important for us to speak out on behalf
of these universal ideals and at these
universal values
okay all right then we're going to take
a question from the internet mr.
president it's a great honor to be here
and meet you in person thank you my name
is Johnson I'm from Shanghai
International Studies University I'll be
reading a question selected on the
Internet's to you and this question is
from somebody from Taiwan in his
question he said I come from Taiwan now
I am doing business on the mainland and
do to improve cross-straits relations in
recent years my business in China is
doing quite well
so when I heard the news that some
people in America would like to propose
continue
selling arms and weapons to Taiwan I
began to get pretty worried I worried
that this may make our cross-strait
relations suffer so I would like to know
if mr. president are you supportive of
improved cross-strait relations and will
although this question is from a
businessman actually it's a question of
King concern to all of us young Chinese
students so we'd really like to know
your position on this question thank you
thank you the
well I have been clear in the past that
my administration fully supports a
one-china policy as reflected in the
three joint communique that date back
several decades in terms of our
relations with Taiwan as well as our
relations with the people were People's
Republic of China we don't want to
change that policy and that approach I
am very pleased with the reduction of
tensions and the improvement in
cross-straits relations and it is my my
deep desire and hope that we will
continue to see great improvement
between Taiwan and the rest of and and
the People's Republic in resolving many
of these issues one of the things that I
think that the United States in terms of
its foreign policy and its policy with
respect to China is always seeking is
ways that through dialogue and
negotiations problems can be solved we
always think that's the better course
and I think that economic ties and
commercial ties that are taking place in
this region are helping to lower a lot
of the tensions that date back before
you were born or even before I was born
now there are some people who still look
towards the past when it comes to these
issues as opposed to looking towards the
future I prefer to look towards the
future and as I said I think the
commercial ties that are taking place
there's something about when people
think that they can do business and make
money that makes them think very clearly
and not worry as much about ideology and
I think that that's starting to happen
in this region and we are very
supportive of that of that process okay
let's see it's a it's a girl's turn now
all right yes right there yes
hold on let's get a whoops I'm sorry
they took the mic back here I'll call on
you next go ahead and then I'll go up up
here later go ahead don't no please
I'll call it on her person then I'll
call on you after it's good Thank You
mr. president
I'm a student from Shanghai Jiaotong
University since you'll have I have a
question concerning the Nobel Prize for
Peace in your opinion what's the main
reason that you were honored the Nobel
Prize for Peace and will it give you
more responsibility and pressure to miss
more pressure and the responsibility to
promote the word peace and the will it
will it will it bring you will it
influence your ideas while dealing with
the international affairs thank you very
much thank you that was an excellent
question you know I have to say that
nobody was more surprised than me about
winning the Nobel Prize for Peace
obviously it's a great honor I don't
believe necessarily that it's an honor I
deserve given the extraordinary history
of people who have won the prize all I
can do is to with great humility accept
the fact that I think the committee was
inspired by the American people and the
possibilities of changing not only
America but also America's approach to
the world and so in some ways I think
they gave me the prize but I was more
just a symbol of the shift in
our approach to world affairs that we
are trying to promote in terms of the
burden that I feel I am extraordinarily
honored to be put in the position of
president and as my wife always reminds
me when I complain that I'm working too
hard she says you volunteered for this
job and so you you know there's a saying
I don't know if there's the similar
saying in China we have a saying you
made your bed now you have to sleep in
it and it basically means you have to be
careful what you ask for because you
might get it I think that all of us have
obligations for trying to promote peace
in the world
it's not always easy to do there are
still a lot of conflicts in the world
that are date back for centuries if you
look at the Middle East there are Wars
and conflict that are rooted in
arguments going back a thousand years in
many parts of the world let's say in the
continent of Africa there are ethnic and
tribal conflicts that are very hard to
resolve and obviously right now as
president the united states part of my
job is to serve as commander in chief
and my first priority is to protect the
american people and because of the
attacks on 9/11 and the terrorism that
has been taking place around the world
where innocent people are being killed
it is my obligation to make sure that we
root out these terrorist organizations
and that we cooperate with other
countries in terms of dealing with this
kind of violence nevertheless although I
don't think that we can ever completely
eliminate violence between nations or
between peoples I think that we can
definitely reduce
the violence between people's through
dialogue through the exchange of ideas
through greater understanding between
peoples and between cultures and
particularly now when just one
individual can detonate a bomb that
causes so much destruction it is more
important than ever that we pursue these
strategies for peace you know technology
is a powerful instrument for good but it
has also given the possibility for just
a few people to cause enormous damage
and you know that's why I'm hopeful that
in my meetings with President Who and on
an ongoing basis both the United States
and China can work together to try to
reduce conflicts that are taking place
we have to do so though also keeping in
mind that when we use our military
because we're such big and strong
countries that we have to be self
reflective about what we do that we have
to examine our own motives and our own
interests to make sure that we are not
simply using our military forces because
nobody can stop us that's a burden that
great countries great powers have is to
act responsibly in the community of
nations and and my hope is is that the
United States and China together can
help to create an international norms
that reduce conflict around the world
okay all right
John I'm gonna call on my ambassador
because I think he has a question that
was generated through the website of our
embassy this was selected though by I
think one of the members of our US press
corps so that that's right and not
surprisingly in a country with 350
million Internet users and 60 million
bloggers do you know of the firewall and
second should we be able to use Twitter
freely is the question well first of all
let me say that I have never used
Twitter I noticed that young people you
know they're very busy with all these
electronics my thumb's are too clumsy to
type in things on the phone but I am a
big believer in technology and I'm a big
believer in openness when it comes to
the flow of information I think that the
more freely information flows the
stronger the society becomes because
then citizens of countries around the
world can hold their own governments
accountable they can begin to think for
themselves that generates new ideas it
encourages creativity and so I've always
been a strong supporter of open and
Internet use I'm a big supporter of non
censorship this is part of the tradition
of the United States that I discussed
before and I recognize that you know
different countries have different
traditions I can tell you that in the
United States the fact that we have free
internet or unrestricted internet access
is a source of strength and I think
should be encouraged now I should I
should tell you I should be honest as
president the United States
our times where I wish of information
didn't flow so freely because then I
wouldn't have to listen to people
criticizing me all the time I think you
know people naturally are when they're
in positions of power sometimes thinks
oh how could that person say that about
me or that's irresponsible or but the
truth is that because in the United
States information is free and I have a
lot of critics in the United States who
can say all kinds of things about me I
actually think that that makes our
democracy stronger and it makes me a
better leader because it forces me to
hear opinions that I don't want to hear
it forces me to examine what I'm doing
on a day to day basis to see am I really
doing the very best that I could be
doing for the people of the United
States and and I think the Internet has
become an even more powerful tool for
that kind of citizen participation in
fact one of the reasons that I won the
presidency was because we were able to
mobilize young people like yourself to
get involved through the internet
initially nobody thought we could win
because we didn't have necessarily the
most wealthy supporters we didn't have
the most powerful political brokers but
through the internet people became
excited about our campaign and they
started to organize and meet and set up
campaign activities and events and
rallies and it really ended up creating
the kind of bottom-up movement that
allowed us to do very well now that's
not just true in for government and
politics it's also true for business you
think about a company like Google that
only 20 years ago
was less than 20 years ago was the idea
of a couple of people not much older
than you it was a science project
suddenly because of the internet they
were able to create an industry that has
revolutionized Commerce all around the
world so you know if it had not been for
the freedom and the openness that the
Internet allows Google wouldn't exist so
I I'm a big supporter of not restricting
internet use internet access other
information technologies like Twitter
the more open we are the more we can
communicate and it also helps to draw
the world together think about when I
think about my daughter's Malia and
Sasha ones eleven one is eight from
their room they can get on the internet
and they can travel to Shanghai they can
go anyplace in the world and they can
learn about any anything they want to
learn about and that's just an enormous
power that they have and that helps I
think promote the kind of understanding
that we talked about now as I said
before there's always a downside to
technology it also means that terrorists
are able to organize on the Internet
in ways that they might not have been
able to do before extremists can
mobilize and so there's there's some
price that you pay for openness there's
no denying that but I think that the
good outweighs the bad so much that it's
better to maintain that openness and
that's part of why I'm so glad that the
internet was part of part of this forum
okay I'm gonna take two more questions
and the next one is from a gentleman I
think all right right here yes here's
the microphone
first the light to say that it is a
great honor for me to stand here to ask
you the questions I think I'm so lucky
and just appreciate that your speech is
so clear that I really do not need such
kind of headset here comes the question
that I I am my name is Drew and him from
Fudan University School of Management
and I would like to ask you the question
is that now that someone has to ask you
something about the Nobel Peace Prize
but I will not ask you in the same
aspect I want to ask you in the other
aspect that since it is very hard for
you to get such kind of honorable price
and I wonder and we all wonder that how
you struggle to get it and what's your
you know a university college education
that brings you to get such kind of
price such kind of prices and we we are
very curious about it and we delight to
invite you to share with us your campus
education experiences so as to go on the
road of success well first of all let me
tell you that I don't know if there's a
a curriculum or a course of study that
leads you to win the Nobel Peace Prize
so I can't guarantee that but I think
the recipe for success is the one that
you are already following obviously all
of you are working very hard you're
studying very hard you're curious you're
willing to think about new ideas and
think for yourself you know I the the
people who I meet now that I find most
inspiring who are successful I think are
people who
are not only willing to work very hard
but are constantly trying to improve
themselves and to think in new ways and
not just accept the conventional wisdom
you know obviously there are many
different paths to success and some of
you are going to be going into
government service some of you might
want to be teachers or professors some
of you might want to be business people
but I think that whatever field you go
into if you're constantly trying to
improve and never satisfied with you
know not having done your best and
constantly asking new questions are
there things that I could be doing
differently are there new approaches to
problems that nobody's thought of before
whether it's in science or technology or
in the arts those are the usually the
people who I think are able to rise
above the rest the one last piece of
advice though that I would have that has
been useful for me is the people who I
admire the most and are most successful
they're not just thinking only about
themselves but they're also thinking
about something larger than themselves
so they want to make a contribution to
society they want to make a contribution
to their country their nation their city
they are interested in having an impact
beyond their own immediate lives you
know I think so many of us we get caught
up with wanting to make money for
ourselves and have a nice car and have a
nice house and all those things are
important but the people who really make
their mark on the world it's because
they have a bigger ambition they say how
can I help feed hungry people or how can
I help to teach children who don't have
an education or how can I you know bring
about a peaceful resolution of conflicts
those are the people I think who end up
making such a big difference in the
world and and
sure that young people like you are
going to be able to make that kind of
difference as long as you keep working
the way you've been working all right
all right this is going to be the last
question unfortunately we've run out of
time so quickly
our last Internet question because I
want to make sure that we got all three
of our fine students here
so mr. president great honor for the
last question and I'm Kerry students
from Fudan University and today I'm also
the representative of China's youth
netizens and this question I think is
from Beijing paid great attention to
your Afghanistan policies and he would
like to know whether terrorism is still
the greatest security concern for the
United States and how do you assess the
military actions in Afghanistan or
whether returning to another yaki war
mm-hmm thank you very much no I think
that's an excellent question well first
of all I do continue to believe that the
greatest threat to United States
security are the terrorist networks like
al-qaeda and the reason is is because
even though they are small a number what
they have shown is is that they have no
conscience when it comes to the
destruction of innocent civilians and
because of technology today if an
organization like that got a weapon of
mass destruction on its hands a nuclear
or a chemical or a biological weapon and
they used it in a city whether it's in
Shanghai or New York just a few
individuals could potentially kill tens
of thousands of people maybe hundreds of
thousands so it really does pose an
extraordinary threat now the reason we
originally went into Afghanistan was
because al Qaeda was in Afghanistan
being hosted by the Taliban
they have now moved over the border of
Afghanistan and there in Pakistan now
but they continue to have networks with
other extremist organizations in that
region and I do believe that it is
important for us to stabilize
Afghanistan so that the people of
Afghanistan can protect themselves but
they can also be a partner in reducing
the power of these extremist networks
now obviously it is a very difficult
thing one of the hardest things about my
job is ordering young men and women into
the battlefield I often have to meet
with the mothers and fathers of the
fallen those who do not come home and it
is a great weight on me it gives me a
heavy heart
fortunately our Armed Services is the
young men and women who participate they
believe so strongly in their service to
their country that they are willing to
go and I think that it is possible
working in a broader coalition with our
allies in NATO and others that are
contributing like Australia to help
train the Afghans so that they have a
functioning government that they have
their own security forces and then
slowly we can begin to pull our troops
out because there's no longer that
vacuum that existed after the Taliban
left but it's it's a difficult task it's
not easy and ultimately I think in
trying to defeat these terrorist
extremists it's important to understand
it's not just a military exercise we
also have to think about what motivates
young people to become terrorists why
would they become suicide bombers and
although there are obviously a lot of
different reasons
including I think the the perversion of
religion in thinking that somehow these
kinds of violent acts are appropriate
part of what's happened in places like
Pakistan and Afghanistan is these young
people have no education they have no
opportunities and so they see no way for
them to move forward in life and that
leads them into thinking that this is
their only option and so part of what we
want to do in Afghanistan is to find
ways that we can train teachers and
create schools and improve agriculture
so that people have a greater sense of
hope that won't that won't change the
ideas of a Osama bin Laden who are very
ideologically fixed on trying to strike
at the West but it will change the pool
of young people who they can recruit
from and that is at least as important
and if not more important over time as
whatever military actions that we can
take okay all right I have had a
wonderful time I am so grateful to all
of you first of all let me say I'm very
impressed with all of your English
clearly you've been studying very hard
and having a chance to meet with all of
you I think has given me great hope for
the future of us-china relations I hope
that's many of you have the opportunity
to come and travel and visit the United
States
you will be welcome I think you will
find that the American people feel very
warmly towards the people of China and I
am very confident that with young people
like yourselves and the young people
that I know in the United States that
our two great countries will continue to
prosper and help to bring about a more
peaceful and secure world so thank you
very much everybody
thank you